Gross domestic product (GDP) is the **dollar value** of all **final goods** and services produced within a country's border. 
- **Dollar Value:** GDP, measured in dollars
- **Final Goods:** Doesn't include the value of intermediate goods (goods used in production of final goods/services)
- **One Year:** GDP measures annual economic performance

GDP measures how well a country is doing financially. How do we use it?
1. Compare to previous years (is there growth?)
2. Compare policy changes (does new policy work?)
3. Compare to other countries (are we better off?)
### Measuring Growth
Change from year to year:
$$\text{Change in GDP} = \frac{\text{year 2 - year 1}}{\text{year 1}}$$
### Not Included in GDP
1. Intermediate Goods
	1. No multiple counting. Only final goods are counted. Ex: Price of finished car, not radio, tire, etc
2. Nonproduction Transactions
	1. Financial transactions. Ex: Stocks, bonds, real estate, etc
	2. Used Goods. Ex: Old cars, used clothes
3. Non-Market (Illegal) Activities
4. Ex: Illegal drugs, unpaid work/volunteer
### Calculating GDP
Two ways of calculating GDP:
1. Expenditures Approach: Add up all the spending on final goods and services produced in a year
2. Income Approach: Add up all income that resulted from selling all final goods and services a year
Both ways generate the same amount since every dollar spent is a dollar of income.

### Expenditures Approach
There are 4 components of GDP:
1. Consumer Spending (C)
	1. Ex: \$5 Little Caesar's Pizza 
2. Investments (I)
	1. When businesses put money back into their own business. Ex: Tools or machinery
3. Government Spending (G)
	1. Ex: Bombs/tanks, NOT social security
4. Net Exports ($X_n$)
	1. Exports (X) — Imports (M)
	2. Ex: Value of 3 Ford cars - 2 Hondas

$$GDP = C + I + G + X_n$$

### The Problem with GDP
If a country's GDP increased from $4 billion to $5 billion in one year, is the country experiencing economic growth? Did the country definitely produce 25% more products?
##### Inflation
Inflation is a rising general level of prices. Ex: If apples were the only thing produce

Year 1: 10 apples at $1 each = $10
Year 2: 10 apples at $1.25 GDP = $12.50

Therefore, the GDP is rising.
### Real vs. Nominal GDP
**Nominal:** GDP measured in current prices. It does not account for inflation from year to year
**Real:** GDP expressed in constant dollars. Real GDP adjusts for inflation
##### Does GDP accurately measure standard of living?
Standard of living (or quality of life) can be measured, in part, by how well the economy is doing. However, it needs to be adjusted to reflect the size of the nations population.
### Real GDP per Capita (per person)
Real GDP per Capita is real GDP divided by the total population. It identifies on average how many products each person makes. Real GDP per Capita is the best measure of a nations standard of living.